Is Meta's just-announced Muse Charm a playful device that will make AI more approachable to everyday consumers, or will it be yet another flop in a long list of AI hardware gadgets that didn't take off, like the Ai Pin, Rabbit, or Friend pendant? Reactions, so far, have been mixed. What the Charm is, however, is on-trend.

Like it or not, the form factor could potentially appeal to Gen Z consumers who, in this post-Labubu era, have already been into various dangling items from keychains and bags. It's all part of a broader kitschy, retro-inspired shift in their approach to fashion and technology.

Up to $200 savings ends Sept. 25
Meet 10,000+ tech leaders, discover 300+ startups, and explore 200+ sessions shaping what's next.
October 13 – 15   |   San Francisco
REGISTER NOW

Already, Gen Z has created a market for things that dangle, with everything from lip glosses to hand sanitizers to sunblocks to fragrances and more turned into bag charms, primarily targeted at women.

Hailey Bieber's viral Rhode lip case, which stuck the lip gloss onto a phone case, had a big influence on this idea that beauty products could also be fashion accessories, as did its other beauty-focused bag charms. (The brand saw $212 million in annual net sales from a lineup of roughly 10 products, Vogue noted last year, as the company announced its billion-dollar exit to Elf Beauty.)

Then there was the Labubu craze, which saw sales of the so-ugly-it's-cute fuzzy monster bag charm explode, growing Pop Mart's (the Chinese retailer behind the product) revenue to $1.8 billion in 2024, a 7x jump from 2019. While demand for the Labubu itself has since faded, the concept of the decorative bag charm has not. One analyst firm estimates the global bag charm market will grow to over $1 billion by 2030.

IMAGE CREDITS:LILLIAN SUWANRUMPHA / CONTRIBUTOR / GETTY IMAGES

Today, bag charms can be characters, bedazzled beauty products, or other whimsical designs or objects, like Coach's coveted cherry charms, a Gen Z favorite. They've proven popular because they're a means of expressing your personality, just as humans have done for ages through their fashion choices, makeup, and jewelry.

Similarly, Meta's Muse is a customizable character; you design your own avatar, which makes the AI agent a reflection of you, too.

And, as many have pointed out, Muse Charm's form factor recalls a Tamagotchi, the pocket-sized digital virtual pet that became a major toy fad in the late 90s and again in the mid-2000s.

However, the Tamagotchi is not the most current reference. It seems the Muse Charm is actually a twist on what some young people are already doing with their Apple Watch. Often meant as a way to repurpose an older device, the concept of the Apple Watch keychain or charm has been growing in popularity, fueled by TikTok videos showing different ways to use the watch when not on your wrist.

On retailers like Amazon and Walmart, and marketplaces like eBay and Etsy, there are thousands of Apple Watch keychains, straps, pendants, lanyards, clips, and bag charm cases now available in nearly every style you can think of. As you might expect, these keychain watches are often being adopted by younger women as a fashion accessory first, rather than a piece of technology.

This all then intersects with the broader retro-tech trend, which has seen older tech like digital cameras, flip phones, iPods, CDs, cassette tapes, home phones, and wired earbuds making a quiet comeback.
