ORLANDO, Fla. (WLOX/Gray News) - New details were revealed during a press conference sharing the results of the state's autopsy and findings from Nolan Wells' cellphone.

Wells went to Horn Island in Mississippi with friends to celebrate the July 4 holiday but never came home. His body was found two days later on the shore of the island.

At the press conference, Andrew Garrett, a forensic expert with Garrett Discovery, detailed information extracted from Nolan's phone, including when the phone was accessed.

He said data show Nolan's phone stayed on the boat the whole time and that Nolan last accessed the phone around 2:18 p.m.

Nolan Wells(Ocean Springs School District)

"One of the things we do know is there was interactions with the phone before and after his death, up until the time that his family retrieved the phone from the other young men that were with him that day," Garrett said.

Garrett also said some data was deleted from the phone but did not give details about what kind of content was deleted.

"There were things that were deleted from the phone," Garrett said. "I can't talk to intent; unfortunately, that's not my field of expertise, psychology."

He said from a digital standpoint, things were deleted on the phone from the time he last had the phone up until the time that his parents got the phone.

The data also included a GPS tracking video of the phone's movements throughout the day, synced with messages and calls made at different times.

Garrett said Nolan used Snapchat and Instagram to communicate 90% of the time versus traditional text messages. The examination was able to retrieve all the messages from group chats Nolan was in — even after his death — until the phone examination began.

Ben Crump said in those conversations, Nolan's friends discussed concern that "people on Horn Island can be racist."

"It is very interesting to know that not only were people across America concerned with the history of the state of Mississippi — whether race would be an issue — but the messages on his phone and the snaps will show some of his own friends were concerned about people on Horn Island can be racist," Crump said.

Crump read one Snapchat conversation aloud. (Note: WLOX does not have an official transcript of the messages. This recount is based solely on what Crump read during the news conference.)

Do you all remember real sketchy looking guys behind us in two boats?
I mean like yeah, that one looked like [redacted name].
